Release Notes for CRUX PPC 3.5 Alpha release 2
10/01/2020

  Introduction

   This page discusses the relevant changes introduced in CRUX PPC 3.5.

   This is the second alpha release of CRUX PPC 3.5.   Changes since
 the first alpha release include version updates to packages, additional
 packages on the install CD, and the install CD is now created from 
 current CRUX PPC packages and so is no longer based on a remastered 2.7.

 Supported machines:

 Apple 32bit "NewWorld" G4 and (in theory) G3 machines are supported.  In 
 practice however, most of building and testing of CRUX PPC 3.5 is performed
 on G4 machines, and G3 is only minimally tested.

 In this Alpha release, machines which have an NVIDIA graphics card will
 not function well.   An easy, but ugly, workaround can be performed
 which will get NVIDIA machines up to a command line prompt.  So, it can
 be used on such machines  but if you have a machine with an NVIDIA card, 
 it may be better off waiting for a fix in a later release.   Machines with
 the ATI Rage video cards are not yet functioning with a GUI interface but
 do support a command line interface.

 Machines which have a Radeon graphics card seem to generally work (reasonably 
 well for an alpha release anyway).  

 Non supported machines:
 64bit PowerPC.

  Toolchain updates

   CRUX PPC 3.5 includes glibc 2.28, gcc 8.4.0 and binutils 2.32.

  Kernel

   Linux-4.19.145

  Important changes

   CRUX PPC 3.5 is a new port of CRUX to the PowerPC.  There is no support
   for upgrading from any earlier CRUX PPC releases to 3.5.  Likewise, 
   future CRUX PPC releases will not likely support upgrading from this
   alpha release, so make notes of any local configuration changes made so
   that they can be remade when installing later CEUX PPC releases.

  Miscellaneous notes

   Please be sure you are using the  latest version of firmware for your  own
   machine.  If you are converting a MACOS machine to a Linux only machine, be 
   aware that Linux does not provide the firmware update tools and so it is 
   important to update the firmware before wiping out MACOS.

  Known issues


   A few warnings will be displayed during boot of the install CD.   These do not
   cause the install to fail and can be ignored.   The install CD startup
   scripts need some adjusting and will be corrected in future work.

   CRUX PPC does not provide .signature checking on the ppc specific packages.
   And in fact, in this Alpha release, not even md5sum checking.

   It is not uncommon for the footprints to mismatch when building on powerpc.
   Generally this footprint mismatch is benign but may halt package building tools.
   The package build utilities provide an option to ignore footprints.  Also
   /etc/prt-get.conf can be adjusted to ignore footprints by default.   A
   footprint mismatch is not necessarily indicative of an actual problem in the
   build.

   The contents of /usr/ports/core-ppc, opt-ppc, xorg-ppc, and contrib-ppc
   are not automatically updated when 'ports -u' is run.  For now, the 
   user will have to manually pull the contents from this repository 
   and update their /usr/ports/*-ppc directory with any changes.

   On some monitors, the left most characters are not visible.  In some
   cases, this can be resolved by adjusting settings on the monitor
   controls.  However this does not always work.   Until this
   is solved, a workaround is to install the xorg server packages and then
   run 'startx'.  The xorg server provides a rudimentary set of windows
   and the whole output will be visible.   Enabling ssh access to the 
   machine and using it to access the machine is also a workaround.

   The midori browser does not seem to function properly with https
   connections (on ppc only, works fine on x86..).  Until this is solved, 
   it is best to not spend the (long) time needed to build it and it's
   dependency chain.  netsurf is provided on the install CD and can be
   used for basic web browsing until a better browser is supported.

   All of the applicable core packages have been built on powerpc but 
   only a subset of opt and xorg packages have been built with CRUX PPC.
   Some of the opt and xorg packages have not been built at all, and others 
   have had to be downreved to build.   Be aware that opt and xorg packages 
   particularly are a work in progress for CRUX PPC and that you may be
   the very first person building a particular opt or xorg package in
   CRUXPPC 3.5.  Likewise, most contrib ports have not been tried in 
   CRUX PPC.

   When using CRUX PPC on G3 hardware a few packages may need to be
   rebuilt natively on the G3 machine in order to function properly.
   If a package causes illegal instruction exceptions, it may need
   to be rebuilt on the G3 machine to function properly.

  Tips

   Package build times can be quite long even on faster powerpc machines.
   Allow for some hours (maybe days on slower machines) when building 
   big packages.  Ensure that your machine has the maximum RAM that it
   can support to help reduce build times.   Also some selected prebuilt 
   packages from opt (and sometimes contrib)  may be found and installed 
   from in the 'extras' section of the repository and this avoids the
   time needed to build them from source.

   For now, netsurf is the browser installed.  Firefox may be  installed
   from the "extras" packages but is somewhat sluggish even on higher end 
   PowerPC machines.   netsurf lacks some functionality found in other 
   browsers but works for most websites and performance is decent.

   The lynx or links browser can also be installed quickly if a text based
   browser is sufficient for the users needs.

